### 1.1.7 Check Your Understanding - Troubleshooting Process

**Question 1** Multiple choice question

In which step, of the seven-step troubleshooting process, would you create a rollback plan identifying how to quickly reverse a solution?

- [ ] analyze information
- [ ] define the problem
- [ ] eliminate possible causes
- [ ] gather information
- [ ] propose hypothesis
- [ ] solve the problem and document solution
- [ ] test hypothesis 


**Question 2** Multiple choice question

What is the highest OSI layer that should be considered when troubleshooting routers and Layer 3 switches?

- [ ] Layer 1
- [ ] Layer 2
- [ ] Layer 3
- [ ] Layer 4
- [ ] Layer 7


**Question 3** Multiple choice question

Which structured troubleshooting method should be used when a cabling problem is suspected?

- [ ] bottom-up
- [ ] comparison
- [ ] divide-and-conquer
- [ ] educated guess
- [ ] follow-the-path
- [ ] top-down


**Question 4** Multiple choice question

Which structured troubleshooting method should be used when a software orientated problem occurs?

- [ ] bottom-up
- [ ] comparison
- [ ] divide-and-conquer
- [ ] educated guess
- [ ] follow-the-path
- [ ] top-down

---
## **Answer:**

**Question 1**
- [x] test hypothesis 
*That’s right.*

When testing a solution to a problem, it is a good idea to have a rollback plan in the event the solution does not work. This returns the network to the starting state so that a new solution can be tried or tested.


**Question 2**
- [x] Layer 4
*That’s right.*

When troubleshooting, the OSI model can be used to help isolate network problems. If symptoms suggest a problem at a specific layer, a technician can focus on devices that operate at that layer. Routers and Layer 3 switches make forwarding decisions at Layer 3 and also make filtering decisions using access control lists, based on both Layer 3 and Layer 4 information.


**Question 3**
- [x] bottom-up
*That’s right.*

Since cables operate at Layer 1, the physical layer, a bottom-up troubleshooting approach, which starts at Layer 1, is appropriate.


**Question 4**
- [x] top-down
*That’s right.*

Since software operates at Layer 7, the application layer, a top-down troubleshooting approach, which starts at Layer 7, is appropriate.

