# What is ITSM

# What is ITSM (IT Service Management)? Meaning, Processes, and Best Practices

ITSM is the practice of meeting tech requirements by treating users as customers and the requirement as a service.

  **_ITSM (short for ==information technology service management==) is defined as the structured practice of meeting an organization’s technology requirements by treating its users as customers and every requirement as a service request, which has to be fulfilled keeping in mind the organization’s resources and quality standards. This article provides an overview of the concept of ITSM. It explains the processes of IT service management and its importance in an enterprise._**


## What Is ITSM?

**ITSM (short for information technology service management) is defined as the structured practice of meeting an organization’s technology requirements by treating its users as customers and every requirement as a service request, which has to be fulfilled keeping in mind the organization’s resources and quality standards**. 

It is the process through which IT personnel oversee the comprehensive delivery of information technology services to clients. This comprises IT services’ design, creation, delivery, and support functions and activities.

ITSM is predicated on the premise that information technology should be provided as a service. An example of ITSM scenarios may entail requesting new equipment, such as headphones, for a contact center. One would send your requirement through a portal, complete a request with all pertinent details, and start a routine procedure. Then, one would place the request in the queue of the IT staff, wherein incoming requests are prioritized and treated accordingly.

People often mistake ITSM for basic IT assistance due to their frequent interactions with IT. ITSM teams manage all types of workplace technology, including endpoint devices, servers, and mission-critical software applications.

IT teams use many frameworks to govern their work—additional ideas, such as COBIT, SIAM, IT4IT, [Lean Six Sigma](https://www.spiceworks.com/tech/devops/articles/what-is-lean-six-sigma/ "Lean Six Sigma"), etc. However, ITSM and DevOps are the most frequently discussed. ITIL (Information Technology Infrastructure Library) is one of the most commonly used ITSM methodologies. It may assist businesses in adapting to continuous change and expansion. ITIL 4 is the most recent collection of standards that leads teams through a company- and customer-centric IT framework. It encourages cooperation, ease of use, and feedback.

IT Service Administration (ITSM) is the process of creating, providing, managing, and enhancing the IT services an organization offers to end customers. ITSM, in its essence, covers the management and administration of an organization. It emphasizes harmonizing IT procedures and IT solutions to promote business expansion.



