## ITSM Best Practices
---

Now that we have discussed the meaning of IT service management (ITSM) and its key processes in detail, let us look at how you can optimize it. Here are six best practices to help you make the most of ITSM in your organization:

### 1. Strategically deploy IT service automation

Automation is among the essential ITSM best practices. However, applying automation to inefficiencies will exacerbate that wastage. Therefore, automating the most vital and well-mapped processes is a crucial aspect of automation.

Automation serves many crucial functions, including freeing human agents for more complex duties, providing consumers with self-service so that they may better assist their customers, and establishing a self-reliant self-service value chain. These measures constitute the shift-left initiative, which entails transferring Level 0/1 requests to self-service and conserving agent capacity for Level 2 and above so that consumers are treated more effectively and fulfilled.

### 2. Be ready to embrace an organization-wide culture shift

Implementing ITSM in businesses may be quite the “culture shock” for the workforce. The implementation process will likely fail if the workforce is not well prepared.

This is why all workers require some rudimentary training and an awareness of the modifications they need to adjust to after implementing the ITSM framework. Organizations can only reverse the mindset until the workers are prepared to accept the transformations that are being made to the organization. Otherwise, it will likely lead to significant resistance and revenue loss.

### 3. Don’t avoid customizations altogether

Numerous organizations invest in new technology, expecting it to function as advertised. Any customization will likely bring integration problems, complexity, and errors; therefore, IT departments implement technology solutions. However, the effort and time saved with the “out of the box” installation of [ITSM solutions](https://www.spiceworks.com/tech/it-strategy/articles/top-itsm-tools-to-consider/ "ITSM solutions") don’t necessarily translate into meaningful business value.

Even the most clearly defined technological solutions must be set and often adapted to meet particular business, technical, or service requirements.

### 4. Augment self-service with knowledge-centric service (KCS)

Knowledge-centered service (KCS) is the ideal complement to self-service since it may become the means for developing and curating information already being gathered as part of the help desk’s troubleshooting and problem-solving activities.

Using this information to create new items in the knowledge base increases the likelihood that someone encountering an issue may discover the relevant content and resolve it without submitting a ticket. Not only does this save valuable time, but it also enables the IT help desk personnel to concentrate on significant issues or concerns rather than the most common inquiries, such as password reset assistance or accessing a calendar to arrange a meeting space.

### 5. Centralize the fulfillment process using a help desk

Consumers of administrative IT services, whether they’re clients or workers, must have several options for contacting your company in the event of a problem. For instance, they may employ web chat, mail, call, self-service, etc., as communication methods. With so many diverse channels accessible to users, how can a single system record and manage incidents? Effective IT help desk solutions may assist here. ITSM agents may monitor every engagement, regardless of whether users submitted it via online forms or emails.

Keeping track of everything in a single location minimizes switching between multiple tools. Agents will be able to react to all incidents and queries from a single dashboard, as opposed to utilizing a different application for each channel.

### 6. Improve the effects of ITSM with the right metrics 

IT managers must define key performance indicators (KPIs) for the IT services management solutions and any self-service extensions to fine-tune their strategy and identify process improvements. Without KPIs, it is impossible to determine if the team is doing well. This necessitates methods for defining performance and collecting data that could accurately represent what happened, both negatively and positively. Some of these metrics include:

- Average ticket resolution time
- Self-service usage
- Month-to-month cost per transaction
- Overall customer satisfaction (CSAT)
- Level Zero Solvable (LZS), i.e., requests resolved without raising a ticket.

**See More:** [**ZenDesk, Spiceworks Cloud Help Desk or N-Able: Which ITSM Tool Is Best for Businesses?**](https://www.spiceworks.com/tech/enterprise-software/articles/best-itsm-tools-for-businesses/ "ZenDesk, Spiceworks Cloud Help Desk or N-Able: Which ITSM Tool Is Best for Businesses?")