1.3.11 Check Your Understanding - Help Desks

Incomplete Question 1

Question 1

Multiple choice question

Which two are effective communication approaches with troubleshooting a problem for an end user? (Choose two.)

Listen carefully as the user explains the problem.

Speak at the technical level of the user.

Use the most current industry jargon when discussing to problem with the user.

Wait until the conversation is finished before writing down notes.

Put the user on hold while you attempt to solve the problem.

SubmitShow feedback

Incomplete Question 2

Question 2

Multiple choice question

What type of information can be gathered by issuing the **show ip interface brief** IOS command?

a summary of the status and assigned IP addresses of all interfaces

a list of configured protocols and interface-specific status of enabled Layer 3 protocols

a list of installed software versions for all or specific components

a list all current IPv4 and IPv6 routes

SubmitShow feedback

Incomplete Question 3

Question 3

Multiple choice question

During the gathering information step, which command would display the configured protocols and the global and interface-specific status of any configured Layer 3 protocol?

**show protocols**

**show ip route**

**show ip interface brief**

**debug**

SubmitShow feedback

Incomplete Question 4

Question 4

Multiple choice question

How are vendor-based knowledge bases used to assist in troubleshooting?

They can be combined with internet search engines to provide the network administrator with access to a vast pool of experience-based information.

They can be used to investigate and correct network problems and allow network administrators to monitor remote devices continuously and automatically.

They can provide device management software for dynamic device status, statistics, and configuration information for key network devices.

They can help with common documentation tasks such as drawing network diagrams, keeping network software and hardware documentation up-to-date, and measuring baseline network bandwidth use.

Submit

